Preparing related docs for MWL GA (#12008)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/account_management/billing/custom_metrics.md

**A custom metric is uniquely identified by a combination of a metric name and tag values (including the host tag)**.

Your monthly billable volume for custom metrics (reflected on the Usage page) is calculated from the average number of distinct custom metrics over all hours in the current month.

> Metrics without Limits users will see monthly billable volumes for _ingested_ and _indexed_ custom metrics on their Usage page. Learn more about ingested and indexed custom metrics and Metrics without Limits [here][25]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics without Limits™ users will see monthly billable volumes for _ingested_ and _indexed_ custom metrics on their Usage page. Learn more about ingested and indexed custom metrics and [Metrics without Limits™][25]. 
```

- `temperature{country:USA, state:Florida, city:Miami}`
- `temperature{state:Florida, city:Miami, country:USA}`

### Configure tags and aggregations with Metrics without Limits\*

> Custom metrics volumes can be impacted by configuring tags and aggregations using [Metrics without Limits\*][4]. Metrics without Limits decouples ingestion costs from indexing costs -- so you can continue sending Datadog all of your data (everything is ingested) and you can specify an allowlist of tags you'd want to remain queryable in the Datadog platform. Given the volume of data Datadog is ingesting for your configured metrics now differs from the smaller, remaining volume you’ve indexed, you'll see two distinct volumes on your Usage page as well as the Metrics Summary page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom metrics volumes can be impacted by configuring tags and aggregations using [Metrics without Limits\*][4]. Metrics without Limits\* decouples ingestion costs from indexing costs -- so you can continue sending Datadog all of your data (everything is ingested) and you can specify an allowlist of tags you'd want to remain queryable in the Datadog platform. Given the volume of data Datadog is ingesting for your configured metrics now differs from the smaller, remaining volume you’ve indexed, you'll see two distinct volumes on your Usage page as well as the Metrics Summary page. 
```

 
- **Ingested Custom Metrics**: The original volume of custom metrics based on the all ingested tags (sent via code)
- **Indexed Custom Metrics**: The volume of custom metrics that remains queryable in the Datadog platform (based on any Metrics without Limits\* configurations) 

**Note: Only configured metrics contribute to your Ingested custom metrics volume.** If a metric is not configured with Metrics without Limits\*, you're only charged for its indexed custom metrics volume.

#### When will you be charged for ingested vs indexed custom metrics?

> If a metric is not configured with Metrics without Limits, you're only charged for indexed custom metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a metric is not configured with Metrics without Limits\*, you're only charged for indexed custom metrics.
```

> {{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-unconfigured-pricing.jpg" alt="Unconfigured Metrics have indexed CMs only" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-unconfigured-pricing.jpg" alt="Unconfigured Metrics have indexed custom metrics only" style="width:80%;">}}
```

> If a metric is configured with Metrics without Limits (tags/aggregations are configured), you pay for ingested custom metrics and indexed custom metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a metric is configured with Metrics without Limits\* (tags/aggregations are configured), you pay for ingested custom metrics and indexed custom metrics.
```

> {{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-pricing-configured.jpg" alt="Configured Metrics have ingested and indexed CMs costs" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-pricing-configured.jpg" alt="Configured Metrics have ingested and indexed custom metrics costs" style="width:80%;">}}
```

> Suppose you wanted to use Metrics without Limits to reduce the size of your `request.Latency` metric by keeping only the `endpoint` and `status` tags. This results in the following three unique tag combinations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you wanted to use Metrics without Limits\* to reduce the size of your `request.Latency` metric by keeping only the `endpoint` and `status` tags. This results in the following three unique tag combinations:
```

- `endpoint:X`, `status:200`
- `endpoint:X`, `status:400`
- `endpoint:Y`, `status:200`

As a result of the tag configuration, `request.Latency` reporting a total of **3 indexed custom metrics** . Based on the original tags sent on this metric, the original **ingested** custom metrics volume of `request.Latency` is **4 ingested custom metrics**.

By default, Datadog stores the most frequently queried aggregation combination depending on the metric's type to preserve the mathematical accuracy of your configured metric's query.

> - Configured counts/rates will be queryable with time/space aggregations of `SUM`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configured counts/rates are queryable with time/space aggregations of `SUM`
```

You can opt-in to more aggregations should they be valuable for your queries - your number of indexed custom metrics scales with the number of enabled aggregations. 

> Learn more about [Metrics without Limits][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about [Metrics without Limits\*][4].
```

| Metric Name   | Tag Values                         |
|---------------|------------------------------------|
| `temperature` | `country:USA`, `region: Northeast` |
| `temperature` | `country:USA`, `region: Southeast` |

Suppose you wanted to add the tag `city` which has three values: `NYC`, `Miami`, and `Orlando`. Adding this tag increases the number of custom metrics as it provides more detail and granularity to your dataset as shown below:

| Metric Name   | Tag Values                                          |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `temperature` | `country:USA`, `region: Northeast`, `city: NYC`     |
| `temperature` | `country:USA`, `region: Southeast`, `city: Orlando` |
| `temperature` | `country:USA`, `region: Southeast`, `city: Miami`   |

The count of custom metrics reporting from `temperature` scales with the most granular tag, `city`.

> Suppose you also wanted to tag your temperature metric by `state` (which has two values: `NY` and `Florida`). This means you are tagging temperature by the tags: `country`, `region`, `state`, and `city`. Adding the state tag doesn't increase the level of granularity already present in your dataset provided by the city tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you also wanted to tag your temperature metric by `state` (which has two values: `NY` and `Florida`). This means you are tagging temperature by `country`, `region`, `state`, and `city`. Adding the state tag doesn't increase the level of granularity already present in your dataset provided by the city tag.
```

> To obtain the temperature in Florida, you can simply recombine the custom metrics of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To obtain the temperature in Florida, you can recombine the custom metrics of:
```

- `temperature{country:USA, state:Florida, city:Orlando}`
- `temperature{country:USA, state:Florida, city:Miami}`

**Note**: Reordering tag values doesn’t add uniqueness. The following combinations are the same custom metric:

- `temperature{country:USA, state:Florida, city:Miami}`
- `temperature{state:Florida, city:Miami, country:USA}`

### Configure tags and aggregations with Metrics without Limits\*

> Custom metrics volumes can be impacted by configuring tags and aggregations using [Metrics without Limits\*][4]. Metrics without Limits decouples ingestion costs from indexing costs -- so you can continue sending Datadog all of your data (everything is ingested) and you can specify an allowlist of tags you'd want to remain queryable in the Datadog platform. Given the volume of data Datadog is ingesting for your configured metrics now differs from the smaller, remaining volume you’ve indexed, you'll see two distinct volumes on your Usage page as well as the Metrics Summary page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom metrics volumes can be impacted by configuring tags and aggregations using [Metrics without Limits\*][4]. Metrics without Limits\* decouples ingestion costs from indexing costs -- so you can continue sending Datadog all of your data (everything is ingested) and you can specify an allowlist of tags you want to remain queryable in the Datadog platform. Given the volume of data Datadog is ingesting for your configured metrics now differs from the smaller, remaining volume you’ve indexed, you'll see two distinct volumes on your Usage page as well as the Metrics Summary page. 
```

 
- **Ingested Custom Metrics**: The original volume of custom metrics based on the all ingested tags (sent via code)
- **Indexed Custom Metrics**: The volume of custom metrics that remains queryable in the Datadog platform (based on any Metrics without Limits\* configurations) 

**Note: Only configured metrics contribute to your Ingested custom metrics volume.** If a metric is not configured with Metrics without Limits\*, you're only charged for its indexed custom metrics volume.

#### When will you be charged for ingested vs indexed custom metrics?

> If a metric is not configured with Metrics without Limits, you're only charged for indexed custom metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a metric is not configured with Metrics without Limits\*, you're only charged for indexed custom metrics.
```

> {{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-unconfigured-pricing.jpg" alt="Unconfigured Metrics have indexed CMs only" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-unconfigured-pricing.jpg" alt="Unconfigured metrics have indexed custom metrics only" style="width:80%;">}}
```

> If a metric is configured with Metrics without Limits (tags/aggregations are configured), you pay for ingested custom metrics and indexed custom metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a metric is configured with Metrics without Limits\* (tags/aggregations are configured), you pay for ingested custom metrics and indexed custom metrics.
```

> {{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-pricing-configured.jpg" alt="Configured Metrics have ingested and indexed CMs costs" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-pricing-configured.jpg" alt="Configured Metrics have ingested and indexed custom metrics costs" style="width:80%;">}}
```

By default, Datadog stores the most frequently queried aggregation combination depending on the metric's type to preserve the mathematical accuracy of your configured metric's query as listed below: 

> - Configured gauges will be queryable in time/space aggregations of `AVG/AVG` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configured gauges are queryable in time/space aggregations of `AVG/AVG` 
```

You can opt-in to more aggregations should they be valuable for your queries - your number of indexed custom metrics scales with the number of enabled aggregations.

> Learn more about [Metrics without Limits][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about [Metrics without Limits\*][1].
```

| Number of custom metrics from including percentile aggregations (p50, p75, p90, p95, p99)  | `5*(tag value combinations)`      |
| Total                                                                                      | `2*5(tag value combinations)`     |

### Configure tags with Metrics without Limits\*

> Custom metrics volumes can be impacted by configuring tags and aggregations using [Metrics without Limits\*][4]. Metrics without Limits decouples ingestion costs from indexing costs -- so you can continue sending Datadog all of your data (everything is ingested) and you can specify an allowlist of tags you'd want to remain queryable in the Datadog platform. Given the volume of data Datadog is ingesting for your configured metrics now differs from the smaller, remaining volume you’ve indexed, you'll see two distinct volumes on your Usage page as well as the Metrics Summary page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom metrics volumes can be impacted by configuring tags and aggregations using [Metrics without Limits\*][4]. Metrics without Limits\* decouples ingestion costs from indexing costs -- so you can continue sending Datadog all of your data (everything is ingested) and you can specify an allowlist of tags you'd want to remain queryable in the Datadog platform. Given the volume of data Datadog is ingesting for your configured metrics now differs from the smaller, remaining volume you’ve indexed, you'll see two distinct volumes on your Usage page as well as the Metrics Summary page. 
```

 
- **Ingested Custom Metrics**: The original volume of custom metrics based on the all ingested tags (sent via code)
- **Indexed Custom Metrics**: The volume of custom metrics that remains queryable in the Datadog platform (based on any Metrics without Limits\* configurations) 

**Note: Only configured metrics contribute to your Ingested custom metrics volume.** If a metric is not configured with Metrics without Limits\*, you're only charged for its indexed custom metrics volume.

#### When will you be charged for ingested vs indexed custom metrics?

> If a metric is not configured with Metrics without Limits, you're only charged for indexed custom metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a metric is not configured with Metrics without Limits\*, you're only charged for indexed custom metrics.
```

> {{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-unconfigured-pricing.jpg" alt="Unconfigured Metrics have indexed CMs only" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-unconfigured-pricing.jpg" alt="Unconfigured Metrics have indexed custom metrics only" style="width:80%;">}}
```

> If a metric is configured with Metrics without Limits (tags/aggregations are configured), you pay for ingested custom metrics and indexed custom metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a metric is configured with Metrics without Limits\* (tags/aggregations are configured), you pay for ingested custom metrics and indexed custom metrics.
```

> {{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-pricing-configured.jpg" alt="Configured Metrics have ingested and indexed CMs costs" style="width:80%;">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl-pricing-configured.jpg" alt="Configured Metrics have ingested and indexed custom metrics costs" style="width:80%;">}}
```

For more real-time tracking of the count of custom metrics for a particular metric name, click into the metric name on the [Metrics Summary page][7]. You can view the number of **ingested** custom metrics and **indexed** custom metrics on the metric's details sidepanel. 
{{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/mwl_sidepanel_ingested.png" alt="Metrics Summary sidepanel" style="width:80%;">}}

## Allocation

You are allocated a certain number of **ingested** and **indexed** custom metrics based on your Datadog pricing plan:

- Pro: 100 ingested custom metrics per host and 100 indexed custom metrics per host
- Enterprise: 200 ingested custom metrics per host and 200 indexed custom metrics per host

These allocations are counted across your entire infrastructure. For example, if you are on the Pro plan and licensed for three hosts, 300 indexed custom metrics are allocated. The 300 indexed custom metrics can be divided equally across each host, or all 300 indexed metrics can be used by a single host. Using this example, the graphic below shows scenarios that do not exceed the allocated custom metric count:

> {{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/host_custom_metrics.png" alt="host_custom_metrics"  >}}

Reviewer: we should update this alt text to be reader friendly.
```suggestion
{{< img src="account_management/billing/custom_metrics/host_custom_metrics.png" alt="host_custom_metrics"  >}}
```
